# Tron.io

This project is a simple network game using the client-server model.
The game itself is based on Tron, where several players will compete
against one another and try to be the last one standing.  Each player continuously 
moves across a grid in one of four directions: north, south, east, or west.  As grid
locations are visited, they are highlighted on the screen as the color of the player.  A player
is eliminated from the game after colliding with either a boundary wall or a previously visited
grid location.  The "lines" generated by players are permanent and remain as obstacles even after
their originators are elminated from the game.  

## Team Members:

Charles Rescanski, Timothy Carta, Ryan Hayes, Griffin King, and Lauren Atkinson

## Instructions:

1. Download the code in this repository.
2. Extract ZIP file in a folder on your computer.
3. Open a command terminal.
4. Navigate to the folder containing the code.
5. Compile all Java files by typing "javac \*.java."
6. Start the server application by entering "java GameServer.java [Optional Port]."
   - If the port argument is omitted, the server will use port 1340 by default.
   - Make note of the IP address of the machine running the server application.
7. Start the client application by entering "java Main.java."
   - You'll notice that "127.0.0.1" is set as the default server IP/hostname and "1340" is set as the default port.
   - Only use "127.0.0.1" as the server hostname if the server is running on the same machine.
   - You can join the game as either a "player" or "spectator."
8. The game will automatically start once at least one other player has joined.
   - Players that join during the middle of a game session will be forced to watch the current session as spectators.
   - Once the round is over, any new players will automatically be added to the following round.
9. Press File -> Exit to leave the game server and close the application.

## How to Play:
 Once the game begin, you can locate your player "bike" as the one with your name displayed beside it.  Your player 
 will automatically spawn in a random location and move in a random direction (up, down, left, or right) at the start 
 of the round.  Use the arrow keys are WSAD to change the direction of the player.  You can only change the player's direction by 90 degrees.
 There is no option to move diagonally.  You become eliminated from the game if your player collides with the edge of the screen or a line drawn 
 on the screen.  You win the game if you surive long enough to become the last remaining player alive.  

## Contributions:

Charles:
* Implemented “Spectator” Mode
* Robust and Easy to Use Startup Screen
   - One Dialog for all connection/setup input
   - Added JColorChooser to customize player color
   - Unlimited Connection Attempts 
* Added Labels to Identify the Names of Players on the Screen
   - Bold label identifies controlled player
* Updated Board to Display Win/Lose Message at End of Each Round
   - If Lost, Name of Winning Player is Shown
* Implemented Messages for Client-Server Communication
   - ChangeDirectionMessage.java
* Modified GameEngine to Detect Player Collisions
   - Compute and Store “Winner” at end of each round
* Robustness: Removal of Players from GameState when Connection Dies
* Removed Chat Interface -> Expanded Size of Game Board
* Modified GameState to Keep Track of Players, Current Game Grid, Current Direction of Each Player
* Modified GameEngine loop to move only players that have not been eliminated
* Significant Testing with Multiple Clients and Spectators


Timothy:
* Allows for any number of connections.
* Currently a minimum of 4 players is needed to start.
* Players spawn at random locations.
* Players will be spectators if the game is already started.
* Game resets 10 sec after game over.
  * Spectators then become players.
* WASD support.

Ryan: 
* Allows for any number of connections.
* Currently a minimum of 4 players is needed to start.
* Players spawn at random locations.
* Players will be spectators if the game is already started.
* Game resets 10 sec after game over.
  * Spectators then become players.
* Created README.md.

Griffin:
* 

Lauren:
* Created GameState 
* Created GameEngine
* Initial wireframe for the game 
* Handled the Client side of projected
* Handled the presentation 

